(NULL,'CIS 110 Fluency with Info Tech','Introduction to information technology (IT), the study of computer-based information systems. Basics of the Internet and World Wide Web. Students create websites using XHTML and CSS.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 111 Intro Web Programming','Project-based approach to learning computer programming by building interactive web pages using JavaScript and XHTML. Programming concepts including structured and object-oriented program design. CIS 110 recommended.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 115 Multimedia Web Program','Intermediate web programming with an emphasis on multimedia (graphics, audio, video). Uses JavaScript, HTML5, and graphics to build interactive web pages.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 122 Intro Prg & Prob Solv','Computational problem solving, algorithm design, data structures, and programming using a multi-paradigm programming language. Introduces techniques for program design, testing, and debugging.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 199 Sp St Apps with Impact',' ',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 211 Computer Science II','This course continues instruction in object-oriented design and programming. Class hierarchies, inheritance, abstract classes, and interfaces are used to represent the structure of a problem domain and allow reuse and specialization of methods and instance variables by subclasses. Several important 'patterns,' i.e., ways of using the language, are introduced to facilitate problem solving in an object-oriented context. A significant programming project is developed over a series of lab assignments.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 212 Computer Science III','The course introduces the concept of abstract data type, and several abstract data types, e.g., lists, stacks, queues, binary trees, are defined and implemented. The course also covers basics of algorithm design and analysis. Recursive and iterative approaches to problem solving are covered, with means for developing and analyzing the resultant algorithms. Notions of correctness proof and Big-O time complexity are explored.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 315 Intermed Algorithms','Algorithm design, worst-case and average-behavior analysis, correctness, computational complexity.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 330 C/C++ and Unix','Practical software design and programming activities in a C/C++ and Unix environment, with emphasis on the details of C/C++ and good programming style and practices.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 399 Sp St Web Engineering',' ',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 401 Research',' ',1-21,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 403 Thesis',' ',1-12,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 404 Internship',' ',1-4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 405 Reading',' ',1-12,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 406 Field Studies',' ',1-4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 407 Sem Research Colloq','Opportunity to study in greater depth specific topics arising out of other courses.',1,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 407 Sem Career/Internships','Opportunity to study in greater depth specific topics arising out of other courses.',2,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 409 Prac Supv Consulting','The student assists other students who are enrolled in introductory programming classes. For each four hours of scheduled weekly consulting, the student is awarded 1 credit. R for maximum of 4 credits.',1-2,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 410 Peer Advising','New courses are offered under this number, the first year or two, before final definition of the courses and permanent approval by the University Senate and Oregon University System.',1-2,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 410 Parallel Computing','New courses are offered under this number, the first year or two, before final definition of the courses and permanent approval by the University Senate and Oregon University System.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 410 Probabilistic Methods','New courses are offered under this number, the first year or two, before final definition of the courses and permanent approval by the University Senate and Oregon University System.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 410 Prog Analysis & Trans','New courses are offered under this number, the first year or two, before final definition of the courses and permanent approval by the University Senate and Oregon University System.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 415 Operating Systems','Principles of operating system design. Process and memory management, concurrency, scheduling, input-output and file systems, security.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 422 Software Method I','Technical and nontechnical aspects of software development, including specification, planning, design, development, management and maintenance of software projects. Student teams complete projects.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 423 Software Method II','Application of concepts and methodologies covered in CIS 422/522. Student teams complete a large system design and programming project. Final system specification, test plan, user documentation, and system walk throughs.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 425 Princ of Program Lang','Syntax and semantics. Scope rules, environments, stores, denoted and expressed values, procedures, and parameters. Definitional interpreters. Types, overloading, parametric polymorphism, and inheritance. Varieties of abstraction.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 445 Modeling & Simulation','Theoretical foundations and practical problems for the modeling and computer simulation of discrete and continuous systems. Simulation languages, empirical validation, applications in computer science.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 453 Data Mining','Databases, machine learning, artificial intelligence, statistics, and data visualization. Examines data warehouses, data preprocessing, association and classification rule mining, and cluster analysis.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CIS 490 Computer Ethics','Addresses ethical issues and social impacts of computing. Topics include crime, hacking, intellectual property, privacy, software reliability, employment, and worldwide networks.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CH 113 Chem of Sustainability','Illustrates how chemistry provides innovative materials, processes, and consumer products that support sustainable solutions related to energy utilization, global warming and pollution prevention.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CH 223 General Chemistry','Chemistry is the study of matter and the changes that it undergoes. It is a science that is central to our understanding of the natural world and it serves as a foundation for all other scientific disciplines. This final course in the sequence, CH 223, is designed for science majors and pre-professional students, and provides an introduction to the experimental and theoretical foundations of chemistry. Students will gain factual knowledge about the terminology and language of chemistry as well as an understanding of the underlying reasons why chemical processes occur. They will be expected to interpret, reason and problem solve using fundamental chemical principles.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'CH 226H Honors Gen Chemistry','First-year university chemistry for students with excellent backgrounds in high school chemistry, physics, and mathematics. Chemical structure, equilibrium dynamics, thermodynamics, reactions, and an introduction to quantum chemistry. Students cannot receive credit for both CH 223 and CH 226H.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 111 College Algebra','Algebra needed for calculus including graph sketching, algebra of functions, polynomial functions, rational functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, linear and nonlinear functions.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 112 Elementary Functions','Exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions. Intended as preparation for MATH 251.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 231 Elem Discrete Math I','Sets, mathematical logic, induction, sequences, and functions. Sequence.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 232 Elem Discrete Math II','Relations, theory of graphs and trees with applications, permutations and combinations.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 233 Elem Discrete Math III','Discrete probability, Boolean algebra, elementary theory of groups and rings with applications.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 247 Calc for Biol Sci II','MATH 247 discusses techniques and applications of integral calculus, along with an introduction to single and coupled differential equations. Topics include integration rules for polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, and trigonometric functions and the substitution and parts techniques of integration. The differential equations content focuses on mathematical modeling and determining stability of equilibria in autonomous individual and coupled differential equations. Solutions for separable and certain autonomous differential equations are discussed.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 251 Calculus I','Single variable differential calculus. The course includes both theoretical and applied results for limits and derivatives of elementary functions-- i.e., polynomial, rational, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic functions. Implicit differentiation and the connections of derivatives with graphs is discussed.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 252 Calculus II','Single variable integration and the fundamental theorem of Calculus. The emphasis is on the computation of areas, volumes, and integration of elementary (i.e., polynomial, rational, trigonometric, exponential, and logarithmic) functions. Applications of calculus to physical situations are discussed. Prerequisites: MATH 251.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 253 Calculus III','The course incorporates such concepts of Calculus as infinite sequences and series, improper integrals, and power series. Prerequisites: MATH 251 and MATH 252. A good understanding of differentiation and integration is assumed.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 256 Intro Differ Equations','Introduction to differential equations and applications. Linear algebra is introduced as needed.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 263 Calculus with Theo III','The course, which is the last of three in the sequence, introduces students to differential calculus from the theoretical point of view, how calculus works as well as how to use it. Topics include infinite sequences, infinite series, Taylor's theorem, uniform convergence, power series, and complex functions. An ability to read, understand and write proofs will be stressed. A precise knowledge of concepts and definitions is essential.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 282 Several-Variab Calc II','Introduction to calculus of functions of several variables including partial differentiation; gradient, divergence, and curl; line and surface integrals; Green's and Stokes's theorems. Linear algebra introduced as needed.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 307 Introduction to Proof','Proof is how mathematics establishes truth and communicates ideas. Introduces students to proof in the context of interesting mathematical problems.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 315 Elementary Analysis','Rigorous treatment of certain topics introduced in calculus including continuity, differentiation and integration, power series, sequences and series, uniform convergence and continuity.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 342 Elem Linear Algebra','Vector and matrix algebra; n-dimensional vector spaces; systems of linear equations; linear independence and dimension; linear transformations; rank and nullity; determinants; eigenvalues; inner product spaces; theory of a single linear transformation.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 343 Statistic Models & Mth','Review of theory and applications of mathematical statistics including estimation and hypothesis testing.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 346 Number Theory','Topics include congruences, Chinese remainder theorem, Gaussian reciprocity, basic properties of prime numbers.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 393 Fund Abstract Alg III','Introduction to algebraic structures including groups, rings, fields, and polynomial rings.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 412 Func Complex Var II','Complex numbers, linear fractional transformations, Cauchy-Riemann equations, Cauchy's theorem and applications, power series, residue theorem, harmonic functions, contour integration, conformal mapping, infinite products.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 415 Intro Analysis III','Differentiation and integration on the real line and in a dimensional Euclidean space; normed linear spaces and metric spaces; vector field theory and differential forms. Sequence.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 422 Fourier Analysis II','General theory of PDEs; the Fourier transform. Laplace and Poisson equations; Green's functions and application. Mean value theorem and max-min principle.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 425 Statistical Methods I','Statistical methods for upper-division and graduate students anticipating research in nonmathematical disciplines. Presentation of data, sampling distributions, tests of significance, confidence intervals, linear regression, analysis of variance, correlation, statistical software. Sequence. Only nonmajors may receive upper-division credit. Students cannot receive credit for both MATH 243 and 425.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 433 Intro Differen Geom','Plane and space curves, Frenet-Serret formula surfaces. Local differential geometry, Gauss-Bonnet formula, introduction to manifolds.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 441 Linear Algebra','Theory of vector spaces over arbitrary fields, theory of a single linear transformation, minimal polynomials, Jordan and rational canonical forms, quadratic forms, quotient spaces.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 446 Intro Abstract Alg III','Theory of vector spaces over arbitrary fields, theory of a single linear transformation, minimal polynomials, Jordan and rational canonical forms, quadratic forms, quotient spaces.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 457 Discrete Dynam Systems','Linear and nonlinear first-order dynamical systems; equilibrium, cobwebs, Newton's method. Bifurcation and chaos. Introduction to higher-order systems. Applications to economics, genetics, ecology.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'MATH 463 Regression & Variance','Linear and nonlinear first-order dynamical systems; equilibrium, cobwebs, Newton's method. Bifurcation and chaos. Introduction to higher-order systems. Applications to economics, genetics, ecology.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'PHYS 203 General Physics','PHYS 203 describes electricity, magnetism and their unification using Maxwell's equations, leading to the description of light waves as electromagnetic radiation. Finally, the principles of modern physics are developed, including quantum physics and special relativity, and technology based on modern physics concepts are explained.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'BI 212 Gen Biol II: Organisms','BI 212 is about the development and physiology of plants and animals. The course focuses on those aspects of physiology that seem to be universal across the enormous range of organisms that have evolved on our planet. We cover the topics of temperature regulation and the constraints imposed by temperature on organism level adaptations, mechanisms of short and long range transport in plants and animals and the constraints that geometry and the nature of diffusion impose on body plans, plant and animal nutrition (including the biology of appetite and the remarkable complexity of soil). We study the five senses and optical illusions by way of the nervous system, and the mechanisms by which plants seem to act as though they had a brain as they respond to various features of light. We cover the topic of development, by which single celled zygotes become complex and diverse organisms with a special emphasis on the genetics of development. Throughout we investigate the roles of natural selection on the physiological features of plants and animals. The course is part of a sequence, so the prerequisite is BI 211.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'BI 213 Gen Biol III: Populat','In this third term of the general biology sequence we build on concepts of how cells and organisms function to study processes and patterns that occur between different organisms and with organisms and their environments. We begin by examining mechanisms that cause genetic change in populations over time with a special focus on natural selection. We then examine the species concept and look at patterns of evolutionary change over long time periods. The last half of the term looks at ecological theory where we study different models of population growth and factors that regulate population growth in various organisms, including humans. We study ways in which two or more species interact and apply these ideas to current issues such as invasive species and loss of biodiversity. At the end of the term we study ecosystem processes such as energy flow and nutrient cycling between various ecosystem components. These are done using a case study such as tall grass prairie ecosystems, fire, and bison grazing.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'PSY 201 Mind and Brain','The primary goal of this course is to introduce students to basic concepts about core mental functions such as learning, memory and attention, and how the brain enables these functions. Across a variety of domains, this course examines the core principles that govern how our mind functions, as well as how these principles arise from the underlying neural substrate.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'PSY 202 Mind and Society','The course takes a research-based approach to psychology, considering at every step along the way how psychologists can best empirically test their theories and add new knowledge about human behavior. Students are given a chance to hone their own observation skills, to develop and test hypotheses, and to become critical consumers of research findings.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'PSY 304 Biopsychology','Relationships between brain and endocrine activity and behavior. Topics include sensation, perception, sexual behavior, drug effects, eating, drinking, sleeping, dreaming, and learning.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'PSY 330 Thinking','Psychological methods involved in problem solving, complex learning, and various forms of rational and irrational reasoning and belief systems.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'GEOG 141 Natural Environment','The earth's physical landscapes, vegetation patterns, weather, and climate; emphasis on the dynamic interactions among climate, landforms, vegetation, and soils. Gavin, Marcus.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'GEOG 321 Climatology','Energy and moisture in the atmosphere, atmospheric circulation, controls of regional and microclimates, applied climatology, climatic variations, past and future climates. Bartlein.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'GEOL 203 Evolution of the Earth','Topics presented in this course include: evolution of the crust and atmosphere; geologic time; evolutionary mechanisms; principles of stratigraphy; record of earliest organisms; processes of fossilization; appearance of multicellular organisms; paleogeography of continents; mountain building and erosion; Paleozoic stratigraphy and organisms; formation and breakup of Pangaea; Mesozoic and Cenozoic climates, stratigraphy, plants and animals, especially evolution of the dinosaurs, pterosaurs, and mammals; major extinctions and possible causes; the Pleistocene ice age and its causes; evolution of hominids.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'WR 320 Scientific & Techn Wr','Emphasis on form, function, and style of scientific, professional, and technical writing; weekly writing assignments include proposals, reports, definitions, instructions, summaries. Use of documentation in publication.',4,Null,Null),
(NULL,'WR 321 Business Communication','Practice in writing and analyzing internal and external messages common to business, industry, and professions. Suggested for business and management students. McBride.',4,Null,Null)
